The accessibility tree.
We've seen this in that
dev tools inspector.
The accessibility tree is similar to
the DOM, the document object model,
in that it is a tree representation
of objects on a page, but
it's only the things that
are interesting to accessibility.
So, semantic elements, not style tags or
script tags or comments.
Like a lot of that stuff that you
see in the DOM, at least you can,
it might not have objects with it,
because basically the way that this
stuff works in HTML is we write an element
or a tag, that tag gets parsed.
Turned into an object, the document
object model, those objects and
when they become rendered as elements
have all kinds of information.
That's where the properties and
the attributes, they do a lot of things.
Some of those things are really relevant
to accessibility, so there is a kind of
separate structure that's created
by the browsers and our platform.
So I'm on a Mac, there's MacOS
accessibility APIs, on my iPhone,
I have iOS accessibility APIs,
Windows has its own, Android, and so on.
So there's slight differences
in these accessibility APIs on
your actual platform, your computer, but
they work with web browsers, and this is
why standards are so important is because
we're coordinating all of this, right?
But the accessibility tree is
in all of these platforms, and
it's what screen readers
use to announce things.
So, that all the extra
cruft is stripped away.
And it's helpful when we debug using
tools like the Chrome accessibility tools
cuz it'll show us what's in
the accessibility tree and
we can get pretty far before we actually
have to turn on a screen reader.
Like that tool was not around
when I started and it's awesome.
So let's look at
the accessibility tree right now.
I just inspected the page,
I can go over here to Accessibility.
And so
it shows me there's some generic elements.
There's an article tag, a main,
a paragraph that has static text and
a link in it.
So for the link, for example,
I can see that its role is link,
and when it's an anchor tag,
it just gets that role of link by default,
like that's implicit,
it comes with the element.
It's like a main, has a main role,
like those roles, this is where ARIA
all comes together, is that it's
relevant in this accessibility tree.
And we can actually,
we can look at this now and
we can see kind of how it relates to
the DOM, but there's way more stuff
over here on the DOM side than there
is on the accessibility tree side.
And I think they limit what you
see in Chrome, at least for
performance reasons,
but you can expand it.
Not that you would necessarily want to.
See, they're making me reload
if I really wanna do that.
But this is how screen readers,
most of them,
some will look at the DOM also,
I know JAWS on Windows will.
But you can inspect a lot as developers,
this should be a regular testing tool.
So we wanna know what it is, what it does.
And I wrote about the accessibility
tree a while back when I was learning
about accessibility and performance.
So I have this graphic that
I made kind of describing
the Firefox Gecko engine's rendering flow.
And so, the accessibility tree,
I kind of estimated,
where it would land in
the rendering process.
And I did an interview with Marco Ziha,
he worked at Mozilla in that
article on my website, but
it's really cool to go back and read.
He gave me some really interesting details
about how the accessibility tree works, so
if you're curious, you can go read that.
So we visualize and
test it with Chrome DevTools,
Firefox has an accessibility tree
inspector as well and Safari.
So we have a lot of tools at our disposal,
we just want to know what is this thing?
Well, it's what screen readers
use to announce information.
The roles, what are things,
the states, what state are they in,
the properties, like, are there any names,
any other characteristics?
And so this matters because we want
to know, what is HTML doing for
us and what is ARIA doing for us?
Well, they all come together, so
it's all part of the rendered output.
And I think a good example of
why you wanna understand this,
the distinction between HTML and
ARIA, it came up for me at work.
My coworkers were curious when to use
the disabled attribute on a button or
a form control versus aria-disabled?
They've seen both of those but
weren't quite sure, what does that do?
Well, disabled is built-in HTML.
It's an HTML attribute that
will disable an input.
It will remove it from the tab order.
It will also tell an accessibility tree,
or
in the accessibility tree it will
affect that element there, too.
Whereas aria-disabled will not make
it anything with the keyboard,
it won't change the keyboard.
It won't gray it out to
make it look disabled,
it will only touch the accessibility tree.
So it will affect a screen reader user,
but
not a keyboard user who
isn't using assistive tech.
So I think we want to know, what
are the effects on the accessibility tree?
I think we saw some of that stuff
with the CSS visibility methods.
Things like opacity and visibility,
those have effects or not.
So we kind of want all of these
tools in this whole picture,
we wanna be aware of it so
that when we are debugging or
making recommendations that we kinda know
what ARIA does and doesn't do for us.
And the accessibility tree is
a way that we can visualize it.
So I have a couple of links in here,
the one from my site on accessibility and
performance, there's also a really great
article in here on web accessibility
with accessibility APIs
on Smashing Magazine.
I think it might be written by Leonie
Watson, and she is blind and amazing.
So I love reading stuff from her
about how screen readers work.
So I'd recommend that.
>> It can happen that a long
text has text overflow ellipses.
How would we handle that case?
>> Long text with ellipses.
Yeah, I guess talking
about accessible names.
So, yeah, there was an attribute for
a while called
Long Desk that was meant for
longer descriptions of things.
I think that might have been deprecated,
it was never really a technique
that carried through.
But I think some of the techniques
that you can do with aria-labeledby
give you more flexibility
over things like aria-label.
So aria-label is meant for short things,
just like alt text is on images.
Aria-labeledby, you can use to
point to entire groups of elements,
like a marked-up table or
a heading and some paragraphs.
You can put more content into an element
and reference it with aria-labeledby.
So that's probably what I would
recommend for some of that technique.
As for the ellipsis,
the content that's cut off,
I guess how does a sighted user
get to read more or do they?
If it's cut off for everyone,
then it's kind of, cut off for everyone.
[LAUGH] But if mouse users or
sighted users have a way to read more,
we just want to make sure
that mechanism is accessible,
that's what comes to mind anyway.
>> About facts sections of a page.
The name of the fact might have a H2,
but the question under it should
be H3 to respect the whole tree
of accessibility, correct?
>> That sounds correct.
I'm not quite sure if that's reference
to the slides or just something else.
But yeah, we should try and
have an overall heading hierarchy.
And you'll see in the accessibility tree
it will show heading levels, so yeah, all
that stuff kind of carries through to what
objects are in the accessibility tree.